## [Main](https://tx58.github.io/) | [Research](/research.html) | [Experience](/experience.html) | [CV](/cv/cv_tianli.pdf) | [Others](/others.html)
* * *

## Working papers
**[Efficiency and Equity Impacts of Urban Transportation Policies with Equilibrium Sorting](/papers/Sorting_Beijing_BLWWX.pdf)** (with [Panle Barwick](https://www.pbarwick.org/), [Shanjun Li](http://li.dyson.cornell.edu/), [Andrew Waxman](https://andrewrwaxman.com/), and [Jing Wu](https://sites.google.com/view/jing-wu-tsinghua-university)) <span style="color:DarkRed"> R&R at American Economic Review </span>. 
> We estimate an equilibrium sorting model of housing location and commuting mode choice with endogenous traffic congestion to evaluate the efficiency and equity impacts of a menu of urban transportation policies. Leveraging fine-scale data from household travel diaries and housing transaction data identifying
residents’ home and work locations in Beijing, we recover structural estimates with rich preference heterogeneity over both travel mode and residential location decisions. Counterfactual simulations demonstrate that even when different policies reduce congestion to the same degree, their impacts on residential sorting and social welfare differ drastically. First, driving restrictions create large distortions in travel choices and are welfare reducing. Second, distance-based congestion pricing reduces the spatial separation between residences and workplaces and improves welfare for all households when it is accompanied by revenue recycling. Third, sorting undermines the congestion reduction under driving restrictions and subway expansion but strengthens it under congestion pricing. Fourth, the combination of congestion pricing and subway expansion delivers the greatest congestion relief and efficiency gains. It can also be self-financed, with the cost of subway expansion fully covered by congestion pricing revenue. Finally, eliminating preference heterogeneity, household sorting, or endogenous congestion significantly biases the welfare estimates and changes the relative welfare rankings of the policies.


## Works in Progress
**An Empirical Analysis of Resale Price Maintenance in the Pharmaceutical Industry**
> This paper studies how resale price maintenance (RPM), a vertical contract that allows upstream manufacturers to directly control downstream retail prices, affects market outcomes and consumer welfare. RPM is controversial from an anti-trust perspective since it can eliminate double markup but, at the same time, facilitate downstream collusion. Exploiting a government investigation on a leading Chinese pharmaceutical company on its RPM behavior (which resulted in a $110 million fine) and a novel pharmacy store-level dataset, I document that the company was successful in implementing RPM, which reduces the price dispersion of its products across retail pharmacies. A difference-in-differences method shows that by adopting the RPM regime, the company decreases the average final retail prices of its products by 5% while increasing the wholesale prices by 4%. I further illustrate how the key primitives (consumer substitution patterns and vertical bargaining power) determine the competitiveness of RPM contracts and discuss policy implications.


**Does the Green Plate Policy of Electric Vehicles Make People Go Green?**
> In the year 2016-2018, the Ministry of Public Security of China implemented a new policy to replace the electric vehicles’ (EV) plates with green ones, making EVs’
plates distinguishable from gasoline cars. We use the differences-in-differences method, leveraging the staggered implementation of the policy to identify the treatment effect.
We find that this ”nudge” policy boosts the local sales of EVs by 24%, saving the government 2.5 billion RMB in cash subsidy. This effect is robust to province boundary design and heterogeneous across different EV brands and city demographics. We provide additional thoughts on the mechanism.

**External Effects of Procurement Auctions: Evidence from Chinese Centralized Procurement for Drugs**
> In the market for medical goods and services, the intense involvement of the public sector creates a possible linkage between public-sector policies and private-sector outcomes. This study investigates the external effects of a centralized procurement auction policy on generic drugs in China, which creates a price shock (50% decrease on average) in the public sector. Leveraging the regional and timing variations, I find that the pharmacies' retail price response is much smaller (10%), indicating strong market friction. I build a structural model to quantity the welfare and provide evidence of consumer inertia and transportation costs as the main mechanisms that explain market friction. Firstly, patients that got diagnosed recently are more likely to switch, indicating strong inertia. Secondly, the price response is more significant for pharmacies closer to hospitals, consistent with high transportation costs.

**Welfare Analysis of a User-Generated-Content Supporting Program on a Short-video Platform**
> A few top content creators usually capture most of the impressions on digital platforms, discouraging grassroots users from creating new content and may threaten the platform ecology. Therefore Platforms are incentivized to support user-generated content (UGC) to improve the content pool, discover potential stars, and achieve better performance in the long run. I analyze an internal experiment in a short-video platform to quantify the effects of a supporting program on UGC. The program leads to worse viewer experience in the short run, measured by a six percentage-point decrease in the completion rates, but leads to more content posting and higher content quality. Furthermore, a model suggests that the gain from content quality can offset the loss of deviating from the short-run recommending algorithm within three months. 

**Punish by Publicizing**
> This paper examines the effects of social pressure on an individual’s behavior. I investigate the policy of a library that publicizes names of borrowers who fail to return books on time to see how such “shame tactics” induce the more timely returns. First, I use a difference-in-differences method to identify the impact of social pressure using historical policy changes as a quasi-experiment. Then a randomized controlled trial (RCT) is conducted by sending emails with different contents to students. The results indicate that: (1) social pressure increases the on-time return rate by 5 percentage points, comparable to the effects of reminders, but weaker than a small fine (1 RMB a day); (2) the impact of social pressure is heterogeneous over different groups of individuals, and is especially strong for faculty, students with wider social connections, and individuals who would have very likely returned the books on time. In practice, this paper suggests an alternative policy tool that facilitates task completion.

**Shopping Mall Externality** (with [Si Zuo](https://www.si-zuo.com/))
> Many papers show there exists the externality among shops within a mall or shopping street, but there is little study about how the externality changes across space and categories. Using the novel daily data of 380 stores in a large mall from 2016 to 2020, we identify the externalities from anchor stores using the anchor stores' promotional events. Such events draw more consumers to the mall and thus benefits the other stores. To deal with potentially endogenous promotional choices, we adopt a new IV: the promotional events of the other stores under the same chain in the same city. Then we show how the externalities vary across floors, distance, and store categories, which is unique to the existing literature. Finally, we use simulations to illustrate how rent contracts and store allocations could internalize the externalities among shops and provide managerial suggestions.